our solidity smart contract is coming
along nicely we've built out the core
functions to provide the ability to add
view and buy items from our smart
contract as well as the ability for the
seller to claim the proceeds of their
sales we also implemented some modifiers
to enforce some basic security and
business logic rules one thing that
sometimes proves helpful is a detailed
log when transactions are executed in
our contract events are specialized
functions that can fulfill this need
events allow convenient use of the EVM
logging facilities there inheritable
members of contracts meaning that all
contracts that inherit from the contract
where the event is defined inherit the
event as well up to three parameters can
be indexed to create topics for the
event this allows you to quickly search
events by the index topic mitad events
are stored in the logs portion of a
transaction this means that for a given
transaction you can inspect the logs and
see the data that was logged by the
event the web 3js library also provides
an event listener allowing you to
configure your application to listen for
the specific events client-side creating
an event is very similar to creating a
function we use the event keyword
followed by the name of the function the
parameters we want to log or added next
and we use the keyword index to specify
fields that should be indexed and used
as topics
to call the event and use it to store
our log data we use the omit keyword
from the function where we want to call
it in this example we've got our code
used to add a listing to the online
marketplace and after we add the new
item to the items array we call the add
listing event
the result is what you see on the screen
here the parameters passed to our event
the seller name and price can be seen in
the logs for the transaction under the
key args
this allows us to go back in time and
troubleshoot what actions took place and
what parameters were used so take a look
at these two events I won't keep you in
suspense the difference is the indexed
keyword on the left
indexing a parameter creates a topic and
topics are searchable and filterable
that sounds like a good thing right well
it can be but it comes with a cost
here we see the results written to the
transaction log from each of those two
events take a look at what happened to
our name parameter in the event that
specified the name as an indexed field
we lost the plain text version of our
name instead we see the hashed value of
the text so while we gain searching and
filtering we lost the value of the field
the value of the hash is based upon the
text being indexed as well so the topic
hash for an item named mountain bike is
different than the topic hash for an
item with the name used kia for this
reason it's really important to think
through your event logging strategy and
use cases to ensure the data you need is
available in the format and
accessibility that works for you
let's see what it looks like when we add
an event logger to our smart contract
we'll start with the event keyword then
give our event a name and follow it up
by adding the parameters that we want to
log for this event in our case the
seller the name and the price
then when we're ready to write that
event out to the logs we use the omit
keyword at the appropriate place in our
contract call our event function and
supply at the parameters that it
requires in this lesson we took a look
at using the event function to write out
data to the EVM logging facility doing
so gives us a wealth of troubleshooting
information when identifying errors in
production in the next video we're gonna
see how to create a kill function in our
contract and learn why you would want to
do so it's an important lesson and one
that I hope you don't have to use but
you'll be happiest there if you need it
I'll see you there